README.md, before:


### Vision Transformer on SERS maps

This repository provides the implementation for our paper [title](url). We experimentally demonstrated that we significantly outperform or is on par with the existing approaches for explosives detection and quantification using raw SERS maps as input. We also opensource three SERS datasets that are measured down to very low concentrations: 4-NBT, 4-dinitrophenyl hydrazine (DNP), and Picric acid (PA).

  

#### Requirement
```bash
git clone https://github.com/lyn1874/molecule_detection_quantification.vit
cd molecule_detection_quantification
conda env create -f molecule_env 
conda activate torch_dl
```

#### Data preparation


#### Model preparation


#### Model training 
###### ViT based explosives detection and quantification
```python
./run_multiple_vit.sh detection quantification dataset gpu_index 
Args:
	detection: bool variable, true/false 
	quantification: bool variable, true/false
	dataset: str variable, TOMAS/DNP/PA
	gpu_index: int, which gpu to use
```

For example, to run detection experiment on dataset DNP, you can simply run:
``./run_multiple_vit.sh true false DNP 0 

###### Spectra based explosive detection and quantification
```python
./run_multiple_spectra.sh dataset model_group detection quantification version percentage gpu_index 
Args:
	dataset: str varialbe, TOMAS/DNP/PA 
	model_group: str variable, xception/unified_cnn/resnet 
	detection: bool variable, true/false 
	quantification: bool variable, true/false 
	version: int 
	percentage: float, 0.002/0.005/0.01/0.02/0.05/0.1/0.2/0.5/1.0 
	gpu_index: int 
```

For example, to run detection experiment on dataset PA with model xception, and you choose to average each SERS map with the Top-2% of the spectra that have the highest peak intensity:
	`./run_multiple_spectra.sh PA xception true false 0 0.002 0`

#### Model testing 

Please look at the file `test_experiment.ipynb` for evaluating the experiment

#### SERS map generation

The processes for generating SERS maps are shown in the jupyter file `SERS_maps_generation.ipynb`

Commit message:

update testing script and path

README.md, after:


### Vision Transformer on SERS maps

This repository provides the implementation for our paper [title](url). We experimentally demonstrated that we significantly outperform or is on par with the existing approaches for explosives detection and quantification using raw SERS maps as input. We also opensource three SERS datasets that are measured down to very low concentrations: 4-NBT, 4-dinitrophenyl hydrazine (DNP), and Picric acid (PA).

  

#### Requirement
```bash
git clone https://github.com/lyn1874/molecule_detection_quantification.vit
cd molecule_detection_quantification
conda env create -f molecule_env.yml 
conda activate torch_dl
```

#### Data preparation
`Download the dataset by running script ./download_dataset.sh`

#### Model preparation

`Download the model checkpoints by running script ./download_ckpt.sh`

#### Model testing 

Please look at the file `test_experiment.ipynb` for evaluating the experiment

#### Model training 

###### ViT based explosives detection and quantification
```python
./run_multiple_vit.sh detection quantification dataset gpu_index 
Args:
	detection: bool variable, true/false 
	quantification: bool variable, true/false
	dataset: str variable, TOMAS/DNP/PA
	gpu_index: int, which gpu to use
```

For example, to run detection experiment on dataset DNP, you can simply run:
`./run_multiple_vit.sh true false DNP 0` 

###### Spectra based explosive detection and quantification
```python
./run_multiple_spectra.sh dataset model_group detection quantification version percentage gpu_index 
Args:
	dataset: str varialbe, TOMAS/DNP/PA 
	model_group: str variable, xception/unified_cnn/resnet 
	detection: bool variable, true/false 
	quantification: bool variable, true/false 
	version: int 
	percentage: float, 0.002/0.005/0.01/0.02/0.05/0.1/0.2/0.5/1.0 
	gpu_index: int 
```

For example, to run detection experiment on dataset PA with model xception, and you choose to average each SERS map with the Top-2% of the spectra that have the highest peak intensity:
	`./run_multiple_spectra.sh PA xception true false 0 0.002 0`


#### SERS map generation

The processes for generating SERS maps are shown in the jupyter file `SERS_maps_generation.ipynb`

#### Citation
If you use this code, please cite:
```
@misc{
}
```
